Which is NOT a good blocking factor?
As discussed in the video, the purpose of blocking an experiment is to make the experimental groups more like one another. Groups are blocked by a variable that is known to introduce variability that will affect the outcome of the experiment but is not of interest to study in the experiment itself.
A rule of thumb in experimental design is often "block what you can, randomize what you cannot", which means you should aim to block the effects you can control for (e.g. sex) and randomize on those you cannot (e.g. smoking status). Variability inside a block is expected to be fairly small, but variability between blocks will be larger.


Which of the following would NOT make a good blocking factor for an experiment?

#ok to block When studying the effect of radiation treatment on cancer recurrence, treatment hospital type is used a blocking factor.

#ok to block When studying the effect of four different tips' hardness readings on a metal hardness tester, the known hardness of the metal is used as a block variable.
This is actually a classic example, used in most experimental design texts and courses! The known hardness of the metal is a great blocking factor.

#ok to block When testing the effect of a type of fertilizer on plant growth, crop type is used as a blocking factor.
Which crop you plant where is very controllable by the experimenter, and likely they will have pre-knowledge (or access to it) about how that plant grows, so this is a good blocking factor.


#NOT ok to block When testing the effect of a drug on blood pressure, current pregnancy is used as a blocking factor.
Current pregnancy is not really something the experimenter can control, and they're also not likely to have enough subjects pregnant to justify blocking by that factor (unless they sampled for pregnant individuals in the first place!)
#and since it is difficult to control for this variable 'current pregnancy', it would be difficult to block on the variable

