Read an entity relationship diagram
The information you need is sometimes split across multiple tables in the database.
What is the most common stackoverflow tag_type? What companies have a tag of that type?
To generate a list of such companies, you'll need to join three tables together.
Reference the entity relationship diagram as needed when determining which columns to use when joining tables.


First, using the tag_type table, count the number of tags with each type.
Order the results to find the most common tag type.
-- Count the number of tags with each type
-- To get the count for each type, what do you need to do?
-- Order the results with the most common
-- tag types listed first
SELECT type, COUNT(*) AS count
FROM tag_type
GROUP BY type
ORDER BY count desc;



type	count
cloud	31
database	6
payment	5
mobile-os	4
api	4
company	4
storage	2
os	2
spreadsheet	2
identity	1









Join the tag_company, company, and tag_type tables, keeping only mutually occurring records.
Select company.name, tag_type.tag, and tag_type.type for tags with the most common type from the previous step.
-- Select the 3 columns desired
SELECT company.name, tag_type.tag, tag_type.type
FROM company
  	   -- Join to the tag_company table
       INNER JOIN tag_company 
       ON company.id = tag_company.company_id
       -- Join to the tag_type table
       INNER JOIN tag_type
       ON tag_company.tag = tag_type.tag	
  -- Filter to most common type
  WHERE type='cloud';


name	tag	type
Amazon Web Services	amazon-cloudformation	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-cloudfront	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-cloudsearch	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-cloudwatch	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-cognito	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-data-pipeline	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-dynamodb	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-ebs	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-ec2	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-ecs	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-elastic-beanstalk	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-elasticache	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-elb	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-emr	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-glacier	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-kinesis	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-lambda	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-rds-aurora	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-rds	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-redshift	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-route53	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-s3	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-ses	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-simpledb	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-sns	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-sqs	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-swf	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-vpc	cloud
Amazon Web Services	amazon-web-services	cloud
Microsoft Corp.	azure	cloud
Dropbox	dropbox	cloud


Superb! You could combine these steps in a single query by using a subquery in the WHERE clause instead of the value 'cloud'.

