What are packages and why are they needed?
Conda packages are files containing a bundle of resources: usually libraries and executables, but not always. In principle, Conda packages can include data, images, notebooks, or other assets. The command-line tool conda is used to install, remove and examine packages; other tools such as the GUI Anaconda Navigator also expose the same capabilities. This course focuses on the conda tool itself (you'll see use cases other than package management in later chapters).
Conda packages are most widely used with Python, but that's not all. Nothing about the Conda package format or the conda tool itself assumes any specific programming language. Conda packages can also be used for bundling libraries in other languages (like R, Scala, Julia, etc.) or simply for distributing pure binary executables generated from any programming language.
One of the powerful aspects of conda—both the tool and the package format—is that dependencies are taken care of. That is, when you install any Conda package, any other packages needed get installed automatically. Tracking and determining software dependencies is a hard problem that package managers like Conda are designed to solve.
A Conda package, then, is a file containing all files needed to make a given program execute correctly on a given system. Moreover, a Conda package can contain binary artifacts specific to a particular platform or operating system. Most packages (and their dependencies) are available for Windows (win-32 or win-64), for OSX (osx-64), and for Linux (linux-32 or linux-64). A small number of Conda packages are available for more specialized platforms (e.g., Raspberry Pi 2 or POWER8 LE). As a user, you do not need to specify the platform since Conda will simply choose the Conda package appropriate for the platform you are using.
What feature is NOT true of Conda packages?

The Conda package format is programming-language and asset-type independent.
Packages contain a description of all dependencies, all of which are installed together.
The tool conda can be used to install, examine, or remove packages from a working system.
Other GUI or web-based tools can be used as a wrapper for the tool conda for package management.

#not Each package contains binary artifacts (executables) for all supported platforms.
Good! Each conda package does contain resources for one specific platform; the tool conda selects which package when it is invoked.






What version of conda do I have?
The tool conda takes a variety of commands and arguments. Most of the time, you will use conda COMMAND OPTIONS --SWITCH. You will learn the collection of COMMANDs available in the next lessons. A summary is available on the help screen:

$ conda --help
usage: conda [-h] [-V] command ...
conda is a tool for managing and deploying applications, environments and packages.

Options:
positional arguments:
  command
    clean        Remove unused packages and caches.
    config       Modify configuration values in .condarc. This is modeled
                 after the git config command. Writes to the user .condarc
                 file (/Users/dmertz/.condarc) by default.
    create       Create a new conda environment from a list of specified
                 packages.
    help         Displays a list of available conda commands and their help
                 strings.
    info         Display information about current conda install.
    install      Installs a list of packages into a specified conda
                 environment.
    [... more commands ...]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help     Show this help message and exit.
  -V, --version  Show the conda version number and exit.


Run a command to determine what version of conda you have installed.
(base) $ conda -V
conda 4.8.1
(base) $ conda --version
conda 4.8.1

Calling conda --version is a useful quick check to make sure conda is working.















