Activity: Analyze your first packet with Wireshark
1-open a packet capture file in Wireshark
2-explore Wireshark's interface by examining how the packet information is presented
3-apply display filters to the packet capture file to inspect packet details based on criteria like protocol and network layer information  
--identify the source and destination IP addresses involved in this web browsing session,
--examine the protocols that are used when the user makes a connection to the website, and
--analyze some of the data packets to identify the type of information sent and received by the systems that connect to each other when the network data is captured.
4-filter and inspect UDP DNS traffic to examine protocol data
5-filter TCP packet data to search for specific payload text data






Task 1. Explore data with Wireshark
Open the packet capture file by double-clicking the file called sample on the Windows desktop. Wireshark starts.
The packet capture file has the Wireshark packet capture file icon, which shows a shark's fin swimming above three rows of binary digits. The packet capture file has a .pcap file extension that is hidden by default by Windows Explorer and on the desktop view.

Double-click the Wireshark title bar next to the sample.pcap filename to maximize the Wireshark application window.
https://cdn.qwiklabs.com/PjBfUlbp6v1iEGt3HHDx4jJgDtyQTqfqXpT8%2BboTN44%3D

A lot of network packet traffic is listed, which is why you’ll apply filters to find the information needed in an upcoming step.
For now, here is an overview of the key property columns listed for each packet:
No. : The index number of the packet in this packet capture file
Time: The timestamp of the packet
Source: The source IP address
Destination: The destination IP address
Protocol: The protocol contained in the packet
Length: The total length of the packet
Info: Some infomation about the data in the packet (the payload) as interpreted by Wireshark

Not all the data packets are the same color. Coloring rules are used to provide high-level visual cues to help you quickly classify the different types of data. Since network packet capture files can contain large amounts of data, you can use coloring rules to quickly identify the data that is relevant to you. The example packet lists a group of light blue packets that all contain DNS traffic, followed by green packets that contain a mixture of TCP and HTTP protocol traffic.


Scroll down the packet list until a packet is listed where the info column starts with the words 'Echo (ping) request'.
What is the protocol of the first packet in the list where the info column starts with the words 'Echo (ping) request'?
HTTP
SSH
ICMP
TCP









Task 2. Apply a basic Wireshark filter and inspect a packet
In this task, you’ll open a packet in Wireshark for more detailed exploration and filter the data to inspect the network layers and protocols contained in the packet.
Enter the following filter for traffic associated with a specific IP address. Enter this into the Apply a display filter... text box immediately above the list of packets:
ip.addr == 142.250.1.139

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.
The list of packets displayed is now significantly reduced and contains only packets where either the source or the destination IP address matches the address you entered. Now only two packet colors are used: light pink for ICMP protocol packets and light green for TCP (and HTTP, which is a subset of TCP) packets.

Double-click the first packet that lists TCP as the protocol.
This opens a detailed packet inspection window:
https://cdn.qwiklabs.com/N9JEVOdNm8AySwBFXCn9oK%2F7suYhio%2BTVOCYi%2FD8Ovk%3D
The upper section of this window contains SUBTREES where Wireshark will provide you with an ANALYSIS OF THE VARIOUS PARTS of the network packet. 
The lower section of the window contains the RAW PACKET DATA displayed in HEXADECIMAL AND ASCII TEXT. 
There is also PLACEHOLDER TEXT FOR FIELDS WHERE THE CHARACTER DATA DOES NOT APPLY, as indicated by the dot (“.”).



Double-click the first subtree in the upper section. 
This starts with the word Frame.
This provides you with details about the overall network packet, or frame, 
including the FRAME LENGTH AND THE ARRIVAL TIME of the packet. 
At this level, you’re viewing information about the entire packet of data.

Double-click Frame again to collapse the subtree 
and then double-click the Ethernet II subtree.
This item contains details about the packet at the Ethernet level, including the 
SOURCE AND DESTINATION MAC ADDRESSES and the 
type of internal PROTOCOL that the Ethernet packet contains.

Double-click Ethernet II again to collapse that subtree and then 
double-click the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree.
This provides packet data about the Internet Protocol (IP) data contained in the Ethernet packet. 
It contains information such as the 
SOURCE AND DESTINATION IP ADDRESSES and the 
INTERNAL PROTOCOL (for example, TCP or UDP), which is carried inside the IP packet.
Note: The Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree is Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPV4). 
The third subtree label reflects the protocol.
The source and destination IP addresses shown here match the source and destination IP addresses in the summary display for this packet in the main Wireshark window.

Double-click Internet Protocol Version 4 again to collapse that subtree and then 
double-click the Transmission Control Protocol subtree.
This provides detailed information about the TCP packet, including 
the SOURCE AND DESTINATION TCP PORTS, 
the TCP SEQUENCE NUMBERS and the 
TCP FLAGS.
The source port and destination port listed here match the source and destination ports in the info column of the summary display for this packet in the list of all of the packets in the main Wireshark window.
What is the TCP destination port of this TCP packet?
80
66
53
200



In the Transmission Control Protocol subtree, scroll down and double-click Flags.
This provides a detailed view of the TCP flags set in this packet.

Click the X icon to close the detailed packet inspection window.

Click the X Clear display filter icon in the Wireshark filter bar to clear the IP address filter.
https://cdn.qwiklabs.com/WW6UcYBLwQ7TTHHSxAMNzk%2FHqjTjvrNPgR9uIqy1r9A%3D
All the packets have returned to the display.
If you ever accidentally close the Wireshark application, you can reopen it by double-clicking the sample file on the desktop.

















Task 3. Use filters to select packets
In this task, you’ll use filters to analyze specific network packets based on where the packets came from or where they were sent to. You’ll explore how to select packets using either their physical Ethernet Media Access Control (MAC) address or their Internet Protocol (IP) address.
Enter the following filter to select traffic for a specific source IP address only. Enter this into the Apply a display filter... text box immediately above the list of packets:
ip.src == 142.250.1.139

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.
A filtered list is returned with fewer entries than before. It contains only packets that came from 142.250.1.139.

Click the X Clear display filter icon in the Wireshark filter bar to clear the IP address filter.

Enter the following filter to select traffic for a specific destination IP address only:
ip.dst == 142.250.1.139

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.
A filtered list is returned that contains only packets that were sent to 142.250.1.139.

Click the X Clear display filter icon in the Wireshark filter bar to clear the IP address filter.

Enter the following filter to select traffic to or from a specific Ethernet MAC address. This filters traffic related to one MAC address, regardless of the other protocols involved:
eth.addr == 42:01:ac:15:e0:02

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.

Double-click the first packet in the list. You may need to scroll back to display the first packet in the filtered list.

Double-click the Ethernet II subtree if it is not already open.
The MAC address you specified in the filter is listed as either the source or destination address in the expanded Ethernet II subtree.

Double-click the Ethernet II subtree to close it.

Double-click the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree to expand it and scroll down until you can see the Time to Live and Protocol fields.

The Protocol field in the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree indicates which IP internal protocol is contained in the packet.
What is the protocol contained in the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree from the first packet related to MAC address 42:01:ac:15:e0:02?
TCP
UDP
ESP
ICMP

Click the X icon to close the detailed packet inspection window.

Click the X Clear display filter icon in the Wireshark filter bar to clear the MAC address filter.








Task 4. Use filters to explore DNS packets
In this task, you’ll use filters to select and examine DNS traffic. Once you‘ve selected sample DNS traffic, you’ll drill down into the protocol to examine how the DNS packet data contains both queries (names of internet sites that are being looked up) and answers (IP addresses that are being sent back by a DNS server when a name is successfully resolved).

Enter the following filter to select UDP port 53 traffic. DNS traffic uses UDP port 53, so this will list traffic related to DNS queries and responses only. Enter this into the Apply a display filter... text box immediately above the list of packets:
udp.port == 53

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.

Double-click the first packet in the list to open the detailed packet window.

Scroll down and double-click the Domain Name System (query) subtree to expand it.

Scroll down and double-click Queries.

You’ll notice that the name of the website that was queried is opensource.google.com.
Click the X icon to close the detailed packet inspection window.

Double-click the fourth packet in the list to open the detailed packet window.

Scroll down and double-click the Domain Name System (query) subtree to expand it.

Scroll down and double-click Answers.

The Answers data includes the name that was queried (opensource.google.com) and the addresses that are associated with that name.
Which of these IP addresses is displayed in the expanded Answers section for the DNS query for opensource.google.com?
169.254.169.254
172.21.224.1
142.250.1.139
139.1.250.142

Click the X icon to close the detailed packet inspection window.

Click the X Clear display filter icon in the Wireshark filter bar to clear the filter.







Task 5. Use filters to explore TCP packets
In this task, you’ll use additional filters to select and examine TCP packets. You’ll learn how to search for text that is present in payload data contained inside network packets. This will locate packets based on something such as a name or some other text that is of interest to you.
Enter the following filter to select TCP port 80 traffic. TCP port 80 is the default port that is associated with web traffic:
tcp.port == 80

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.
Quite a few packets were created when the user accessed the web page http://opensource.google.com.

Double-click the first packet in the list. The destination IP address of this packet is 169.254.169.254.

What is the Time to Live value of the packet as specified in the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree?
64
128
16
32


What is the Frame Length of the packet as specified in the Frame subtree?
74 bytes
40 bytes
60 bytes
54 bytes



What is the Header Length of the packet as specified in the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree?
60 bytes
74 bytes
54 bytes
20 bytes


What is the Destination Address as specified in the Internet Protocol Version 4 subtree?
172.21.224.2
169.254.169.254
142.250.1.139
239.1.250.142




Click the X icon to close the detailed packet inspection window.

Click the X Clear display filter icon in the Wireshark filter bar to clear the filter.

Enter the following filter to select TCP packet data that contains specific text data.
tcp contains "curl"

Press ENTER or click the Apply display filter icon in the filter text box.
This filters to packets containing web requests made with the curl command in this sample packet capture file.

