Tasks of the data engineer
The video presented several tasks of the data engineer. You saw that there are some differences between the tasks of data scientists and the tasks of data engineers.
Below are three essential tasks that need to happen in a data-driven company. Can you find the one that best fits the job of a data engineer?

#not Apply a statistical model to a large dataset to find outliers.

#not Come up with a database schema for an application.
Although the data engineer can be involved in this process, it's typically the responsibility of the software engineer or architect to come up with a database schema for an application.

#yes Set up scheduled ingestion of data from the application databases to an analytical database.










Data engineer or data scientist
You now know that there's a difference between the job of the data engineer and the data scientist. Remember the definition of a data engineer:
An engineer that develops, constructs, tests, and maintains architectures such as databases and large-scale processing systems.
Now let's see if you can separate tasks for the data engineer from the data scientist's tasks.

Classify the tasks in the correct bucket. Is it for the data engineer or the data scientist?
Data engineer
data acquisition
data integration
clean corrupt data
scalable data architecture
Cloud technology

Data scientist
mine data for patterns
statistical models
clean statistical outliers in data
predictive models
monitor business process











Data engineering problems
For this exercise, imagine you work in a medium-scale company that hosts an online market for pet toys. As the company is growing, there are unmistakably some technical growing pains.
As the first data engineer, you observe some problems and have to decide where you're best suited to be of help.

#yes Data scientists are querying the online store databases directly and slowing down the functioning of the application since it's using the same database.
Correct! The data engineer should make sure there's a separate database for analytics.

#not Harmful product recommendations are affecting the sales numbers of the online store.
#not The online store is slow because the application's database server doesn't have enough memory.
