Kinds of databases
In the video, you saw that databases are an essential tool for data engineers. The data engineer's workflow often begins and ends with databases.
However, databases are not always the first step. Sometimes, data has to be pulled in from external APIs or raw files. Can you identify the database in the schematics?

#not All database nodes are on the left.
#not All nodes on the left and the analytics node on the right are databases.

#yes Accounting, Online Store, Product Catalog, and Analytics are databases.
Correct! The Google analytics database is also a SQL database. All except for the product catalog are SQL databases.











Processing tasks
Data engineers often have to join, clean, or organize data before loading it into a destination analytics database. This is done in the data processing, or data transformation step.
In the diagram, this is the intermediate step. Can you select the most correct statement about data processing?

#not Data processing is often done on a single, very powerful machine.
#not Data processing is often very complicated because you have to manually distribute workload over several computers.

#yes Data processing is distributed over clusters of virtual machines.
Although very complicated internally, frameworks like Spark are so powerful because they make an abstraction of the complicated distributed system operations.
This makes it very easy to scale. If things are slowing down, assign some more virtual machines to the job.










Scheduling tools
The last piece of the puzzle is the scheduler. In this example, Apache Airflow is used. You could see the scheduler as the glue of a data engineering system, holding each small piece together and organizing how they work together.
Do you know which one is not a responsibility of the scheduler?

Make sure jobs run in a specific order and all dependencies are resolved correctly.
Make sure the jobs run at midnight UTC each day.

#not a responsibility - Scale up the number of nodes when there's lots of data to be processed.
Indeed. The scheduler does not scale up processing power. That's the job of the processing tool.


