Shorten long strings
The description column of evanston311 can be very long. You can get the length of a string with the length() function.
For displaying or quickly reviewing the data, you might want to only display the first few characters. You can use the left() function to get a specified number of characters at the start of each value.
To indicate that more data is available, concatenate '...' to the end of any shortened description. To do this, you can use a CASE WHEN statement to add '...' only when the string length is greater than 50.
Select the first 50 characters of description when description starts with the word "I".


Select the first 50 characters of description with '...' concatenated on the end where the length() of the description is greater than 50 characters. Otherwise just select the description as is.
Select only descriptions that begin with the word 'I' and not the letter 'I'.
For example, you would want to select "I like using SQL!", but would not want to select "In this course we use SQL!".
-- Select the first 50 chars when length is greater than 50
SELECT CASE WHEN LENGTH(description) > 50
            THEN LEFT(description, 50) || '...'
       -- otherwise just select description
       ELSE description
       END
FROM evanston311
-- limit to descriptions that start with the word I
WHERE description LIKE 'I %'
ORDER BY description;




description
I  work for Schermerhorn & Co. and manage this con...
I Live in a townhouse with garbage cans in back, i...
I Put In For Reserve Disabled Parking, A Week Ago ...
I SDO GOWANS #1258 RECEIVED A TELEPHONE CALL ON 3/...
I accidentally mistyped my license plate number - ...
I accidentally sent the wrong cover letter on my a...
I acquired c diff at north shore hospital in Evans...
I am a 35 year resident of Evanston (314 Custer Av...
I am a Cubs fan and watched game seven. But using ...
I am a Northwestern student that has accumulated t...
I am a PTA president at Dewey Elementary.  Alongsi...
I am a business owner at 1121 Emerson St at the co...
I am a current customer at 1333 Maple Ave, Unit 2E...
I am a day care worker at the family center at the...
I am a senior citizen and need to dispose of elect...
I am about to renew my Pooch Park pass for 2 dogs ...
I am an Evanston resident.  I would like to disput...
I am aware that the city of Evanston doesn’t regul...
I am concerned about the relatively young parkway ...
I am contacting you from Rimland Services. We have...
I am contesting a parking ticket I received on Wed...
I am curious to know when the no left turn sign on...
I am currently in the middle of purchasing a home ...
I am due in August, but I also have a 2-year old. ...
I am fed up with the dog owners at 137 Asbury Ave....
I am having my wedding at the EEC June,24th of 201...
I am hoping to have a Yard Sale in which the proce...
I am hoping to have a Yard Sale in which the proce...
I am in the James Park area and would like my wate...
I am interested in conducting a Zoning Analysis fo...
I am interested in knowing whether there are lead ...
I am interested in the 50/50 sidewalk replacement ...
I am looking for some information on your mobile w...
I am loosing renters because of the graffiti all o...
I am moving into my condo and would like to get a ...
I am moving. What is the protocol for reserving st...
I am not able to pay my wheel tax online because t...
I am not sure who is supposed to clean the sidewal...
I am on the condo board here at the Heritage and h...
I am on this site  https://www.cityofevanston.org/...
I am one of several City of Evanston residents who...
I am out of the country and renting my house to a ...
I am purchasing this property and will take owners...
I am renter at 530 Michigan 3E and my home is cold...
I am reporting an area that has become a garbage d...
I am signed up for text notifications for street s...
I am surprised to see that it still costs $2.95 to...
I am the building manager for the building at 635 ...
I am the buyer of this property, therefore, will n...
I am trying to confirm when the pick-up for yard w...
I am trying to figure out why in the world the cit...
I am trying to find out if there is ANY website wh...
I am trying to get a bait box put in my yard and a...
I am trying to register my son's flag football tea...
I am very concerned about the quality of water in ...
I am working out at the lakefront near lighthouse ...
I am writing again about the grass at Porter Park ...
I am writing concerning a long-standing problem ex...
I am writing regarding an “Abandoned Auto” sticker...
I and most of my neighbors take great care to clea...
I applied for a senior benefits card and was told ...
I appreciate this reminder from Economic Developme...
I arrived at Cheesie's Pub & Grub on Friday night ...
I asked months ago and was told the alley that run...
I believe that a construction truck just knocked d...
I believe the cart is a 65-gallon, but I am not su...
I believe the trash is associated with the propert...
I believe this is the on-site maintenance personne...
I broke down an old armoire and piled it up on the...
I called 311 on Monday afternoon.  The garbage has...
I called 311 on this apartment last week.  Trash h...
I called a week or two ago to report a detached br...
I called and spoke with Mr. Johnson (26 years at C...
I called early regarding missed pick up, someone f...
I called the owner Mr. Fuller but was unable to le...
I called to see why it wasn't removed on bulk tras...
I came home from vacation to find a big metal plat...
I can not locate the meter, but I hear water flowi...
I can put it in a bag when I get home tonight, but...
I can't tell who the landscaper is, but they are u...
I cannot find anywhere on the City of Evanston web...
I complained to the personal of the restaurant and...
I conducted an inspection of 6 dwelling units at 6...
I contested a ticket on line.  How do I know that ...
I could not find answers on your website to the fo...
I did not receive a wheel tax renewal form in the ...
I don't have an issue and I'm sorry if I'm wasting...
I don't live in the building or know the owner, bu...
I don't understand why this sign has to be put in ...
I don’t know how to answer that last question. “Sd...
I don’t know how to answer that last question. “Sd...
I encountered a rat on my back porch yesterday.  I...
I entered the space number and then tried to put c...
I finally saw it happen. A car coming out of the E...
I find animals in the garbage can because of the h...
I found a cheesy popcorn kernel in my pad thai ( s...
I found dark pubic hair in my Lemon Chicken on New...
I fractured my kneecap in January after slipping o...
I got a flyer taped to my door with the header  Op...
I got a ticket at meter at this day and time.  Tic...
...



Well done! Shortening long fields can help you scan the values quickly and spot patterns you might not otherwise see.

