Identifying types of trading philosophies - I

Hello and welcome to Financial Trading in R! This course will teach you how to construct a basic trading strategy in quantstrat, R's industrial-strength backtesting platform developed by Brian Peterson, Director of Algorithmic Trading at DV Trading. Over the next few chapters, you'll build a trading strategy in quantstrat from start to finish, including the code to set up a new strategy, as well as the design of indicators, signals, and rules for your strategy. By the end of the course, you'll be ready to design and implement your own trading strategies directly in R!
quantstrat is currently only available on GitHub. If you want to install it on your own machine, you first need to remotes package.
install.packages("remotes")

Then you can install quantstrat using
remotes::install_github("braverock/quantstrat")

Before getting into the meat and potatoes of the course, let's review some phrases and mechanics you may have heard in the world of financial trading, or even in pop culture. As you learned in the video, the mechanics of trading usually come in one of two forms:
Trend trading (also divergence or momentum), which is a bet that a quantity, such as a price, will keep moving in its current direction.
Reversion trading (also convergence, cycle, or oscillation), which is a bet that a quantity, such as a price, will reverse.

When someone says "the trend is your friend", which type of trading philosophy is he or she referring to?
Trend or momentum trading















Identifying types of trading philosophies - II
Believe it or not, the following phrase is used to describe strategies ranging from holding securities over months to holding securities over days. However, the basic hypothesis is the same.

When someone criticizes a trading strategy for "trying to catch a falling knife", what type of strategy is he or she most likely referring to?
Reversion or oscillation trading
Exactly! "Catching a falling knife" is akin to betting that a price will reverse.














Identifying types of trading philosophies - III
Often on television, when someone sees a stock rise in price, more experienced talking heads will say: "Don't chase the price. Buy the dip." What philosophy are they referring to?

In fact, this course will teach you the basics of putting together such a strategy.
Trend or momentum trading
Reversion or oscillation trading

#yes Both
Exactly! "Buying the dip" can refer to both trend trading and reversion trading.



